# Insurance_Classification_Category
Analysis of Factors Affecting Loan insurance Claim with Random Forest &amp; Decision Tree Methods
Kredit Usaha Rakyat (KUR) is an Indonesian government program that provides working capital and investment support for productive businesses, as well as credit or financing to the SME and micro segment. This credit program is designed for micro and small business owners and is dispersed using a guarantee system where a state-owned insurance company serves as the guarantor. From a guarantor's perspective, maintaining a low claim ratio is critical for company benefits, which is why it is necessary to investigate the variables that contribute to loan default and loan insurance claims. In this analysis, two classification methods are used, decision tree and random forest, to compare and choose the better model along with SMOTE as there is a class imbalance detected in the dataset. This study involves 11 independent variables and 1 dependent variable. Based on the running result, the model generated by random forest has a higher accuracy of 0.96 compared to decision tree with 0.95 accuracy. As a result of SMOTE, the recall value increased while the accuracy, precision, and F1-score decreased. Further observed by an analysis of the confusion matrix, with the observation results determining that the chosen method was Random Forest. From the feature importance result,  the most important factors that affect claim or not claim are ‘jangka_waktu’, ‘nilai_agunan’, ‘plafon_kredit’, and ‘modal_usaha’.
